# Requirements
- Both programs require input files with peptide dictionaries. These need to be prepared from the proteomes of the relevant organisms using the ImunDist program. The source code for ImunDist is not publicly accessible. However, the executable file and a basic description can be obtained from the following link: https://figshare.com/articles/software/ImunDist/17711474

# mcSortStrings
The function mcSortStrings computes the fraction of strings from the set1_long (e.g., the peptides stimulating T-cell response) that contain an item from the set (set2_short) of substrings (e.g., the potential targets of T-cell recognition). The function also performs the Monte Carlo test to find whether this fraction is larger than such fraction if the set of substrings is selected randomly from another set (set3_pool), e.g., from all possible peptides of a given length of a virus. The function expects two strings, “text1” and “text2”, which will be printed at the beginning of the output (on the console and the output file), the number of random samples to be generated “repeats” during the Monte Carlo test, name of the input csv file containing the list of strings (s1_long), name of the input csv file containing substrings to be searched for (s2_short), name of the input csv file containing the strings from which random sets of substrings will be selected (s3_pool), name of the output file for the strings containing any of the substrings, name of the output file for the strings that do not contain any of the substrings. All three input files must contain the first empty column and a column named “sequence” with strings. The results of the analysis and the test will be printed on the console and written to the output file “outputMC.csv” and the strings (sorted to those containing and not containing the substrings) will be saved in two output files.

# mcPeptides
The function mcPeptides computes the fraction of potential targets of T-cell recognition (set1) that are contained either in real targets of cytotoxic T-cell recognition (set2) or helper T-cells recognition (set3). The function also performs the Monte Carlo test to find whether this fraction is larger than such fraction if the set of “potential targets” is selected randomly from another set (set4), e.g., from all possible peptides of a given length of a virus. The function expects two strings, “text1” and “text2” that will be printed at the beginning of the output (on the console and the output file), the number of random samples to be generated “repeats” in the Monte Carlo test, the name of csv file containing the list of potential targets (potCsv), i.e., set1, the name of the csv file containing real cytotoxic T cell targets (cEpitCsv), i.e., set2, the name of the csv file containing real helper T cell targets (hEpitCsv), i.e., set3, the name of the csv file containing the strings from which random sets of “potential targets” will be selected (vsCsv), i.e., set4, and Text 3 that will be used as a prefix for names of four output files (list of potential targets with real targets in which these targets were (or were not) found. All four input files must contain the first empty column and a column named “sequence” with the strings. The results of the analyze and the test will be printed on the console and written to the file “output3.csv”, and sorted strings will be saved to output files.
